The Churn column (response variable) indicates whether the customer departed within the last month or not. The class No includes the clients that did not leave the company last month, while the class Yes contains the clients that decided to terminate their relations with the company. The objective of the analysis is to obtain the relation between the customer’s characteristics and the churn.
The first step of the analysis consists of reading and storing the data in a Pandas data frame using the pandas.read_csv function.
The objective is to understand the data, discover patterns and anomalies, and check assumptions before performing further evaluations.At the beginning of EDA, we want to know as much information as possible about the data, this is when the pandas.DataFrame.info method comes in handy. This method prints a concise summary of the data frame, including the column names and their data types, the number of non-null values, and the amount of memory used by the data frame.
Bar plot shows the percentage of observations that correspond to each class of the response variable: no and yes. As shown below, this is an imbalanced data set because both classes are not equally distributed among all observations.
we are going to use normalized stacked bar plots to analyze the influence of each independent categorical variable in the outcome. A normalized stacked bar plot makes each column the same height, so it is not useful for comparing total numbers; however, it is perfect for comparing how the response variable varies across all groups of an independent variable.
For all numeric attributes, the distributions of both classes (No and Yes) are different which suggests that all of the attributes will be useful to determine whether or not a customer churns.
The Scikit-Learn library has implemented mutual information in the metrics package. The following code computes the mutual information score between each categorical variable of the data set and the Churn variable. Mutual information allows us not only to better understand our data but also to identify the predictor variables that are completely independent of the target. As shown above, gender, PhoneService, and MultipleLines have a mutual information score really close to 0, meaning those variables do not have a strong relationship with the target.
Feature engineering is the process of extracting features from the data and transforming them into a format that is suitable for the machine learning model. In this project, we need to transform both numerical and categorical variables.All transformations are implemented using only Pandas; however, we also provide an alternative implementation using Scikit-Learn.
Label encoding is used to replace categorical values with numerical values. This encoding replaces every category with a numerical label. In this project, we use label encoding with the following binary variables: (1) gender, (2) Partner, (3) Dependents, (4)PaperlessBilling, (5)PhoneService , and (6)Churn .
Data Normalization is a common practice in machine learning which consists of transforming numeric columns to a common scale.
The first step when building a model is to split the data into two groups, which are typically referred to as training and testing sets. The training set is used by the machine learning algorithm to build the model. 
The last step of the machine learning process is to check the performance of the model (best hyperparameters ) by using the confusion matrix and some evaluation metrics.